Expand across region of the Midwest?

MKE Fellows:

Students stay through Masters and further. Started in Milwaukee, expanded to Madison, and a pilot in Detroit. Want to see students be extremely successful. 10/100 students would graduate within 7 years. College graduation rate with MKE follows is 79-85%. A lot of major corporations like to hire right out of MKE Fellows. Aims to give students a running start going forward. 

In 2019, launched a cohort in Baltimore, St. Louis, been asked on their own to consider cities like Orlando and Atlanta. Real goal is to make sure the cities that they go to, the need is there. Don't want to go to same cities as UnitedWay. They have 12 markets, but MKE Fellows wants to put quality over quantity.

Statistics looked at:
1. Graduation rate first statistic (increased Pell grant)

Want program to be specific for women as well. Different metrics that could be measuring. In Milwaukee, Black women are graduating at a much higher rate than men. 

First two years, law and business for everybody. After that, graphic design, teaching, doctors of PT, do not limit accepting people based off of their major. Students in completely different fields help sharpen each other's fields. Started businesses, mechanical engineering. 12 Majors that they want to go into:
Finance, Marketing, Graphic Design, Business, Computer Science, Education

Application? Michael visits high schools. Find that many of their students is optimized for mobile. Smart phone works just as well for the application. In some of the schools, the counselors will apply for them. Typically bring on about 50 students in a year. 200 students working with at one time. 

Constraints:
Indianapolis is a possible city. However, the open internships are more for people getting two-year certificates. If the companies don't have available internships, then it's not the best. Detroit, other example. But, there is still a huge presence of the auto industry, and so many are still in manufacturing not for 4-year degrees.

No GPA requirement, but all are required to go to college before they become a full Fellow. High school students are scholars until they get into college. Give them something to look forward to and a goal to go to college. 

"Supports academically talented folks"
1. Internships (every single student gets an internship, or students work in their field)
2. Mentorship (each one gets a mentor in a near-field match)
3. Workshops (cleaning up resume, how to interview, execs sit with students, etc.)
4. Networking, just meeting people
5. Always finding scholarships for them. If they get 3.0 first semester, they pay their books second semester

Average cost for student is 0 for a student themselves, but between 5-7k per year to make sure they get all of those things. 25% grant funded, another 60% is from their annual golf tournament, last 15% is from corporations who make sure they stay involved with them. XYZ insurance company says we want interns. 

70% of their students are out of state. Certain students are in tandem programs that require them to be geographically located. Want them to go to the very best school for them. 

Milwaukee companies want them to go well. JPMorgan, EY, BlackRock, Google will recruit in Milwaukee. Great for them to learn something somewhere else. Companies see this as a pipeline. Most companies are in the Wisconsin area. They work with companies for placement. Learn what student strengths are, what works at these particular companies. Culture of the company is very important as well.

Challenges in getting students involved: Certain schools won't respond to their emails. Schools are not responsive. Another challenge is people think it's too good to be true. They ask, "What's the catch?" 

Chicago is 90 minutes from Milwaukee. Would be a great indication. Started with seniors pre-pandemic. If you're a Fellow, you already get a certain percentage off of tuition. 

Only ask about financial need after you get into the program. They do not consider income in the admissions process. He's looking for grit, determination, and someone had a 2.9 but they're working a full-time job and they're involved. They'll take that over a 3.4. They interview every single student. If you're not being interviewed, you won't get into the program. 

Funders love funding students where they think there is a greater need. Conversation they always have to balance between how many of their students are below the poverty line, free or reduced, etc. He has found that all the students they work with have some need.

Pilot programming with young women have tried to see what's needed. They're getting close to having a framework that will work for young women. The data that we find will hopefully challenge that thinking. One funder is willing to fund the start
2. Cook County (Chicago, but also 2 hours South)up cost for a city. 

Mentor Greater is an example program that is very successful. When you have good performance of interns where you're working.
$1 million for Milwaukee. Madison is just that person. They partner with 3 organizations there. Partnering works better. Young Men United is the name in other cities. It's the same as MKE. Not want to be in any of those 8 cities. Paid internships for sure. Financial firms will give 15-25k, nonprofits, law firms sponsor events, banks as well.

1. Sizeable black population
2. Bridge between high school and college for women. Mentors that can support women. Qualitative research
3. Need to increase graduation rates
4. Career opportunities for students, good high living. 

Prove or disprove a hypothesis. 

Graduation Rates with respect to Black Population
1. Philadelphia
2. Cook County (Chicago suburbs)
3. Richland South Carolina
4. Harris County TX

Philadelphia notes: Funded by the state, lots of philanthropy already

LinkedIn postings for internship opportunities between 2023-2024
1. New York, NY
2. Chicago, IL
3. Houston, TX
4. Atlanta
5. Washington, DC
6. New York
7. Boston, MA
8. Phoenix, AZ

Houston is becoming more of a hub. NASA companies and tech are becoming more important. 

Can we do like a specific story? Find an article. 

Outline a framework for choosing a city. First, we start off with giving a recommendation about the city. Talk about the statistics important in making us decide in Chicago. Go into depth in each factor, and how Chicago fits into this, with a heatmap. Then we talk about Houston in the future. 